# Long-Sequence
Given an unsorted array of integers nums, return the length of the longest consecutive elements sequence.

For this program, I was tasked to return the length of the longest consecutive elements sequence, given an unsorted array of integers nums. My approach was to sort the Array List, and then use a combination of a for loop and if/else statements to find the longest combination of consecutive integers. While sorting the array list, I ran into unforeseen problems which I was spending a lot of time trying to solve. After I was introduced to the method “Collections.sort()”, I realized that it would be better to simply use that method instead of spending more time writing the code to sort the array list. After sorting the array list, I created 2 variables named longest and current, initializing both with 1. I decided that I’d use current to keep track of how many consecutive numbers were in the current sequence I was tracking, and longest to keep track of the longest length of consecutive numbers. After initializing these variables, I created a for loop to traverse the array list passed into the method, nums. Inside that loop, I check if the number at position i is not equal to the number before it. If it isn’t, then that would be the first sign that a sequence is possible. Within that if statement, I check if the number at i is equal to the one before it plus one. This statement checks to see if the numbers are consecutive. If they are, I update current by 1, and make longest the maximum number between longest and current using Math.max(). This ensures that longest will always remain the length of the longest consecutive number of integers. Otherwise, if the numbers are not consecutive, I update current to 1 so it can be re-used to track the next sequence of consecutive integers. Finally, I returned the longest variable. I checked this program by creating an alternate main method, in which I created 2 new Array Lists and filled them with test cases. Then, I print out the calls to the method and pass in the array lists. Both tests returned the correct length of the longest sequence. 
